Group Project: Team Agreement
createElement(“Team”)
Camilla Rees, Ethan Luxton, Michael Gazaway
It’s important that the safety and security of the group comes first, and that an agreement is in place to establish expectations and accountability among the whole group.
Cooperation Plan
What are the key strengths of each person on the team?
Ethan
CSS
Debugging
Good teacher, helpful
Graphic design
Camilla
DOM Manipulate
Eye for design
Gaz
JS
Deconstruction of complex problems
How can you best utilize these strengths in the execution of your project?
Ethan can help with foundational building blocks of design within the game
Camilla can help with setting the scene through DOM manipulation and other JS elements
Gaz can help with big picture product design - logic framework
In which professional competencies do you each want to develop greater strength?
Ethan
Improve JS skills
Camilla
Improve problem solving skills
Gaz
Wants to improve design
Peer programming
Knowing that every person in your team needs to understand all aspects of the project, how do you plan to approach the day-to-day work?
Daily action items for each partner and debrief
Feature branches
Making suggestions on code
Kanban
NOTE: Undoing, Redoing, Replacing, or otherwise steamrolling the project as an individual is considered to be unacceptable. Account for the inevitable divergence of ideas, execution tasks, and assignments of duties here.
Conflict Plan
Your team should agree on a process for handling disagreements, should they arise. It is better to have a plan in place ahead of time so you can all refer back to it when necessary.
Describe at least:
What will be your group’s process to resolve conflict, when it arises?
Make Ben our therapist (lol)
Talking it out - finding source of conflict
Growth mindset, we’re here to learn
It’s just a class
Listening to others logic and thought processes, keeping in mind everyone wants to have a successful project
What will your team do if one person is taking over the project and not letting the other members contribute?
Three strike rule - call each other out
We have safeguards in place (day-to-day plan) that will prevent this from happening
How will you approach each other and the challenges of the project knowing that it is impossible for all members to be at the exact same place in understanding and skill level?
Empathy
Explain what you’re doing as you’re doing it
How will you raise concerns to members who are not adequately contributing?
Bring it up, ask if they can take more on
How and when will you escalate the conflict if your resolution attempts are unsuccessful?
Inform Ben and Adam
Communication Plan
Before beginning to tackle the project, determine how your group will communicate with each other. This is not an individual effort. Make sure everyone feels comfortable with the identified methods of speaking up.
Describe at least:
What hours will you be available to communicate?
Ethan works 7am-4pm Monday through Friday, able to communicate throughout the day, but can code evenings and weekends.
Camilla can communicate all day, code evenings and weekend, and some day time hours
Gaz can communicate all day, code evenings and weekends, and some day time hours
What platforms will you use to communicate (ie. Slack, phone …)?
Slack
Phone for urgent messages
How often will you take breaks?
As needed
What is your plan if you start to fall behind?
Sacrifice stretch goals for MVP
How will you communicate after hours and on the weekend?
Communication plan
What is your strategy for ensuring everyone’s voice is heard?
Daily stand ups
How will you ensure that you are creating a safe environment where everyone feels comfortable speaking up?
Social skills
Empathy
Work Plan
Explain your work plan to track whether everyone is contributing equally to all parts of the project, and that each person is working on “meaty” problems. This should prevent “lone wolf” efforts and “siloed” efforts.
NOTE: While researching and experimentation is always encouraged, writing and/or committing code to the project on your own during non-working hours or over the weekend is never acceptable. This puts the entire project at risk. Be explicit in calling out your work hours and the distribution of tasks.
Describe at least:
How will you identify tasks, assign tasks, know when they are complete, and manage work in general?
Kanban/Agile
What project management tool will be used?
Kanbantool.com
Presentation Deck
Make a single copy of the Presentation Deck Template. Share your copy will all team members, so everyone is working from the same file.
Link to the shared doc in your project plan.
Schedule your practice session
Work with your instructor to pre-schedule an date and time for your “practice run” of your presentation. This should either be an exact time, or a short window of time designated by your instructor. Plan for a 30-45 minute meeting during the class session before your actual presentation to allow time for both your practice run and feedback from the instructional team.
Reminder as you work on and practice your presentations:
Expressions of gratitude should be heartfelt.
When not presenting, team members should make strong eye contact with the “audience” / camera.
Be positive, no matter how tired or burned out you may feel … “Your smiles can be heard over the phone”
Git Process
Plan out what your team’s Git workflow looks like for coding tasks.
Describe at least:
What components of your project will live on GitHub?
Dev branch and main branch
Feature branches will be worked on locally
How will you share the repository with your teammates?
Made an organization and all owners of it
What is your Git flow?
Main - product
Dev - act as main
Feature - local efforts
Will you be using a PR review workflow? If so, consider:
How many people must review a PR?
Between main and dev, we will implement pull requests after a code review
Who merges PRs?
Anyone after the code review
How often will you merge?
Milestones
How will you communicate that it’s time to merge?
Once we’ve reached the milestones via the kanban board
Submitting Your Work
This is a group submission. Only one person must submit for group credit.
Please have everyone’s name at the top of the doc.
Submit a link to your GitHub markdown file where you have created your Team Agreement.
This step must be completed and approved before proceeding with any project work. Notify your instructor when this is ready for review.

